9 and 10 adults today have some
component of metabolic illness for the
first time in human history we have more
overweight people walking the Earth and
underweight and by and large people are
being taken down by these kinds of
diseases of civilization diseases that
are that are essentially driven by being
undernourished and overfed those three
factors make those kinds of foods
particularly when they're all you have
access to
a recipe for disaster
American Americans by and large are not
in a good state of health right nine in
ten adults today have some component of
metabolic illness which is a really sad
statistic but it's true nine and ten do
you think that you can be profoundly
overweight and still be healthy I think
that you can be more healthy or less
healthy at a given weight but it's it's
without controversy better to not be
obese and today why why would you say
that's without controversy because I
would say certainly in Instagram circles
that's going to be very like people are
going to push back on that I can already
feel them typing in the comments as we
speak
um so
in what way is that incontrovertible
well obesity is not healthy
um it's a disease
and I think today we have a number of
different sort of voices that are coming
at us that are trying to obfuscate the
reality of the fact that obesity is a
disease now it is associated with the
onset or worsening of non-communicable
chronic conditions like type 2 diabetes
your risk for developing type 2 diabetes
is dramatically higher if you're obese
cardiovascular disease it's not good for
your joints it's an inflammatory
condition
um neurodegenerative disease so it's
it's by and large not healthy that being
said I think it's a positive thing that
we're seeing people at different stages
on their fitness journey today
but to point to somebody who is obese
and uh
try to put a spin on it as if that's an
aspirational state to be I completely
disagree with that and I would say that
all of the you know most credentialed
medical experts would also corroborate
that that being said beauty is
subjective right so to conflate Health
and Beauty I don't think is is smart I
think that we should all practice
self-love there shouldn't be any shame
attached uh to obesity we should we
should be encouraging yeah we should be
encouraging people
um to you know to to shift their body at
any stage to a more healthy State and
it's also true I should add that you
can't really tell much about a person
based on how they look from the outside
and you can also be unhealthy and
underweight which is it which is a major
medical problem but today for the first
time in human history we have more
overweight people walking the Earth and
underweight and by and large people are
being taken down by these kinds of
diseases of civilization diseases that
are that are essentially driven by being
undernourished and overfed and I think
that the foundation of this this
epidemic where by the year 2030 one in
two people are going to be not just
overweight but obese right
are Ultra Ultra processed food products
that by and large we over consume today
your average American today derives 60
of their calories from Ultra processed
foods these are the foods that line our
Supermarket aisles so just to make it
really simple for the audience you know
our supermarkets tend to be designed the
same way it's the perishable fresh food
that tend to be around the perimeter the
aisles have all the Shelf stable
convenience foods that are minimally
satiating highly calorically dense and
Hyper palatable so those three factors
make those kinds of foods particularly
when they're all you have access to
a recipe for disaster
and so it's it's driving disease I think
in a major way and when it comes to the
food the kinds of things that people
should be should should learn how to
identify and thus avoid I think we have
to all be more mindful of the added
sugar epidemic added sugar is Insidious
today it's in everything it's in it's in
sauces it's in coffee beverages right we
go to coffee chains for a cup of coffee
we end up drinking dessert your average
person today is consuming 77 grams of
added sugar every single day so just to
visualize that added sugar so this is
sugar for which we have no biological
necessity no biological need it's the
sugar that food manufacturers are
pumping into these Ultra processed food
products is there some amount of sugar
in that product that's not considered
added sugar or every gram of sugar in
that is added sugar yeah if you were to
look at the nutrition facts label label
of an apple it would say zero grams of
added sugar but an apple a honey crisp
apple has about 24 grams of of sugar in
it it's not added but the sugar in an
apple for example is bound to the food
Matrix which includes fiber it includes
polyphenols lots of water so it's it's
highly self-limiting and that's not the
case with these Ultra processed food
products we don't Tire reveting them
there was a seminal study published in
2018 funded by the NIH that showed us
when you give adults access to an ultra
processed food diet and you and you tell
them to basically eat until you're full
eat until you're satisfied they end up
eating
to a calorie surplus of about 500
additional calories and that I think
goes back to the fact that these foods
are minimally satiating and added sugar
in particular we don't Tire of eating it
we have let's get into why sugar so bad
so you know we started this by saying
that one I want to reinforce many people
that I love I grew up in a morbidly
obese family so when I say that I don't
pass judgment on them love them to death
but want to see them live as long as
possible I'd love to know if anybody's
ever done a study of like
um what age do we see what BMI
because I'm guessing that as you get
older the BMI just starts dropping
dropping dropping dropping dropping
until you basically you don't see obese
90 year olds right yeah that's true it's
really there's something fascinating
there in terms of it's what it does to
longevity so going from that standpoint
that I'm guessing that basically
everything that we're going to strip out
of people's diet is because it causes
some variation of metabolic disease
we're making the base assumption that
our North star's longevity Health span
and call it performance yes yeah okay so
um if we're knowing that we're marching
towards that and sugar is the first
thing that we strip out give it to me at
a biological level why are we stripping
sugar what's it doing metabolically
that's gonna really ruin our ability to
live for a long time in a healthy way
and at high performance
well I think that the the perception
around sugar has sort of evolved which
is which is a very positive thing I
don't I don't necessarily think that a
little bit here and there is toxic in
any sense I don't think that sugar is
the sole Smoking Gun for the Obesity
crisis there's nothing inherently
fattening about sugar but it's yeah I
mean well I mean the dose makes the
poison or I would say that the reason
why sugar plays a role added sugar plays
a role in the in the Obesity epidemic is
because we don't Tire of consuming it
and it's addition to ultra processed
food products make contribute to the
characteristic known as Hyper
palatability so it makes those Foods
prone to over consumption all right is
hyper palatability the problem or is
there another mechanism that kicks in so
here's a theory I forget exactly who put
this forward but basically hey fruit
comes around in the fall fructose is
designed to make you fat it basically
makes my chondria less efficient on
purpose you start kicking off all of
this basically you're wasting energy
raising your body temperature uncoupling
something and it lets off heat and
you're doing all of that in conjunction
with making your cells more insulin
resistant so that you're basically
storing more of the glucose in your
bloodstream so it's not basically
getting out of your body or even getting
shoved into your fat cells because you
want to keep your fat cells the way that
they are you even want to store some of
the glucose in the bloodstream and
you're doing all of that trying to give
your body the signal to store store and
the reason that worked from a longevity
standpoint is you're more likely to
survive the winter yes and so you've got
sugar not only as a hyper palatability
thing but that it's also a signaling
molecule telling your body winter is
coming store this [__] up
um
yeah yeah no it's true so we have to we
have to kind of reconcile two truths
here so the first truth is that
um sugar when sugar is present in the
blood when our blood sugar becomes
elevated it tells our pancreas basically
to secrete the hormone insulin which is
the fat storage hormone it's secreted
basically and it's and it serves two
essential roles one is to shuttle
glucose into you know into the cells
that that need it right so your
musculature your skeletal muscle your
liver these are the only places really
that are able to store sugar in the body
and they store it for a good reason
because they use it as an energy source
right when you're doing high intensity
or anaerobic exercise your muscles
require stored glucose in the form of
glycogen to perform that high intensity
work the second function that insulin
serves is it gets the sugar out of your
blood because when you when your blood
sugar is chronically elevated that's
toxic it's actually glucotoxic we know
that chronically elevated blood sugar
damages your blood vessels it glycates
your your red blood cells right that's
something that you can measure with a
test called the hemoglobin A1c and
Insulin also
turns your fat cells into a one-way
valve so it prevents lipolysis which is
the release of free fatty acids from
your fat tissue basically and that does
serve a purpose of helping to partition
energy so that when when sugar is
available our muscles are burning sugar
as a per as opposed to burning fat so it
does block the burning of fat
however if you're in a if your body is
in a calorie deficit it knows that
you've got energy stored in your fat
tissue and so it's going to be able to
circumvent the fact that insulin
typically acts like a one-way valve on
your on your fat cells so when insulin
is elevated calories can flow into the
Vets into the fat cell but they can't
flow out
um
but again if you are if your body is
starving for energy if you're in a
calorie deficit insulin is going to come
down
and those calories are going to be
released anyway so I think even if you
have glucose in your bloodstream yeah I
mean think look at bodybuilders who eat
massive amounts of carbohydrates while
in a calorie deficit they are still able
to get shredded right so insulin you
need elevated insulin to store fat
but if you're in a calorie if you're in
an energy deficit your body is going to
be able to draw those calories
regardless right
what is up my friends I have huge news
for you about one of the most exciting
and important projects I've ever worked
on in my life as you guys know it is my
mission to help teach people about how
to build a mindset and the skills that
they're going to need to live an
extraordinary life and over the last few
months I've been working hard behind the
scenes to create a brand new tool that
will help you do exactly that it's
called project Kaizen and I'm proud to
announce that I'll be bringing it to the
world later this year project Kaizen is
a web 3 based game like experience that
is a story based world that's going to
allow you to get inside build an avatar
that is aspirational of who you want to
become and then take the path of the
warrior seeking continuous Improvement
inside of a story world and game
experience alright my friend I cannot
tell you how excited I am about this
amazing new project which I think ushers
in a whole new form of entertainment and
I want to meet you inside of Roger
Kaizen and help you have fun with these
ideas of always getting better right
click the link and join me in Discord
and until then my friends be legendary
take care peace
so now then let's look at other
qualities of sugar so I hear a lot of
calories a calorie and hey look at the
guy the twinkie guy ends up losing fat
get it you just explained why
but
if my cells are made of the things that
I eat am I really by doing a Twinkie
diet or something like that where I'm
eating you know different oils I'm
eating trans fats whatever am I doing
damage to my body at a cellular level
that might not be detectable from just
looking at me and seeing that I'm either
in shape or Not In Shape yeah so I don't
want people to think that I'm promoting
a high sugar diet because again sugar
it's got this hyper palatable quality
also thanks to really robust
meta-analyzes we see that people healthy
individuals who are on high glycemic
index diets so diets that are very
sugary right diets that contain a lot of
refined grain products are at are at
increased risk of developing type 2
diabetes so we know that chronic
elevations of blood sugar even if you're
if you're young and healthy is not good
it's not good to your metabolic system
it glycates the proteins in your body
and I'm I have this hypothesis that
uh it's really lifetime exposure of
glucose
um that over the long term is is
damaging
um and lifetime exposure basically
implies the area under the curve of all
of the you know all of the glycemic
excursions that your body has seen over
the years right so I think that's one
reason to reduce glycemic variability
also we know that when we eat high sugar
when we ingest a high sugar bolus it
tends to drop our blood sugar because
again insulin it removes sugar from the
blood but the way that it works the
pancreas is not an instrument of
precision it functions more like a blunt
tool so for somebody that's eating a lot
of sugar it actually can send your sugar
your blood sugar below Baseline which
can trigger anxiety in people who are
prone to it it can leave you feeling
hangry right
consuming lots of sugar also outside of
the conversation regarding weight which
again is ultimately
um dictated by energy balance
consuming a high sugar bolus can also
elevate your blood pressure which we
know is a risk factor for
neurodegeneration we've seen that one
high sugar bolus about 75 grams of sugar
can cause your systolic blood pressure
to elevate for two hours post ingestion
which is no bueno we've also seen that a
high sugar bolus can reduce testosterone
by about 25 percent which also persists
for two hours yeah why any guesses why
we'd have an evolutionary response to
Sugar that lowers our testosterone
that's a good question I'm not I'm not
sure although I would
you know I think that when we see an
onslaught of sugar in the blood
particularly from in these in these
clinical studies they're using the these
sugary beverages oftentimes from what
are called oral glucose tolerance tests
there's no a hunter-gatherer would have
never had access to that kind of rapidly
digested sugar Deluge right because we
would have had fruit and our fruit as
hunter-gatherers would have been a
fraction of sweet as they are today but
the notion of fruit juice or a sugary
High glute 75 gram glucose beverage for
example didn't exist
um so I think what it does it sends our
body into a stress State
um and so that's I think one of the
reasons why we see the elevation of
blood pressure and I would also assume
because stress can reduce testosterone I
would I would guess that that's one of
the mechanisms there as well so that's
really interesting yeah it's um I mean
we are seeing a decline in testosterone
that's in general though in general yeah
are we I've always assumed that's
multifactorial that's poor diet that's
adding on weight that's uh some of the
societal things that are happening
that's uh BPA all of the above it's like
a big well all of the above but as I
mentioned in that study where they saw a
25 reduction in testosterone they used a
75 gram sugar bolus right as I mentioned
your average adult today consumes 77
grams of added sugar wow every single
day so they're consuming that every day
so yeah the added the added sugar thing
I think is uh it's a problem now again
if you have a big calorie budget if
you're a bodybuilder if you're
um you know if you're if you're burning
an uh an intense amount of calories on a
daily basis you do have a discretionary
caloric budget but for your average
person again today your average person
is overweight bordering on Obesity
um has some component of metabolic
illness glucose dysregulation I would
say that being being a sleuth and being
able to identify added sugar and then
and then cut that out or at least
minimize your consumption of it I think
you'd be doing your health major favors
so one more question along that
so let's say that I'm a bodybuilder I'm
yoked huge muscle mass and I am burning
a ton of calories I'm using my muscles a
lot and I live for the next 30 years on
a high sugar diet by calorie but I live
in a caloric deficit so I still look
awesome six pack abs I'm lean
do you think that I'm going to be
getting glycated tissues like is there
am I paying a price internally even
though I'm lean if I were to do it for
that long I don't think anybody's done
that study but just curious so there's a
there's a debate actually raging right
now
um in the in the sort of nutrition
Community as to whether or not
chronic glucose spikes which yield
chronic insulin spikes
is at the etiology of insulin resistance
or whether it's purely uh uh and sort of
energy toxicity scenario
um what we do see is that insulin
resistance precedes chronically elevated
insulin by sometimes 10 years so it
might be the case that those chronic
spikes of insulin
um wrought by chronically eating you
know high sugar regardless of where you
are with your calories might actually
cause somebody to develop insulin
tolerance because cells develop a
tolerance to chemicals that they are
chronically exposed to right and so if
we're chronically exposing ourselves our
tissues to high levels of insulin via
our diets regardless of where you know
whether or not we're in a calorie
deficit or Surplus then they might they
might theoretically develop this the
sort of insulin resistance and there is
a debate about that so you know I'm my
get my best guess would be
because of these meta-analyzes that are
showing that high glycemic diets will
will predispose us to developing type 2
diabetes I think it's best to really
minimize glycemic variability to know
um you know the kinds of foods that are
going to cause your your blood sugar to
go through the roof and then to to
minimize them and to use glucose
yielding starches as a as a performance
enhancing tool really
um
and I you know I I eat starches I eat
sweet potatoes and and you know the
occasional grain
um but I am ultimately looking to make
sure that I'm keeping my blood sugar
stable because you know whenever your
blood sugar is elevated you're you are
essentially glycating the proteins in
your body you're damaging the proteins
it's this it's this sort of
non-enzymatic reaction between
sugar in your blood and protein and it
essentially drives Decay and damage
also when your body's in a low insulin
State you're allowing for Gene Pathways
to to activate that are associated with
longevity like foxo3 cert one so these
are all very complicated sort of Gene
Pathways but
um we know that chronically high levels
of insulin are sort of like in
opposition to those to those pathways
all right so we've got sugar yeah we're
not going to mess around with that uh
what else are we removing from our diet
are we messing with dairy where are we
at on that oh man I love this question
so I've actually my my views on on Dairy
have evolved
um recently Dairy is when you look at a
glass of milk it's a solution of water
and fat right but the fat doesn't stay
at the top right right let's have some
sugar in there oh there is lactose yeah
there is a natural source of it is a
natural source of sugar but
um it's not like oil and water right the
fat globules are suspended in the
solution of of essentially 95 water
which is what milk is right
the triglycerides in Dairy are bound by
A lipoprotein essentially like you know
you've heard of lipoproteins like your
LDL cholesterol
milk is comprised of lipoproteins called
milk fat globule membrane and these
globules are comprised of proteins like
sphingomyelin which is an important
structural component of of myelin right
the myelin sheath in our brains it's
comprised of phosphatidylcholine so I
think that actually there's a lot of
good stuff to be had in full fat Dairy
and it also these globules in milk
affect the way our bodies respond to
them so Dairy is unique among fat
containing foods in that it's got a
higher proportion of saturated fat than
any other food so if you look at any
natural fat containing steak Yeah steak
is actually about 50 percent
monounsaturated fat and you've got a
fair amount of polyunsaturated fat in
steak particularly grain-fed steak and
then you actually have a relatively
small proportion of saturated fat in the
steak even though it gets like people
are like oh my God the saturated fat
mistake
um Dairy has a much higher proportion of
saturated fat and yet paradoxically we
see that people who consume full fat
Dairy tend to have better cardiovascular
health better metabolic health
and I think it's due to the the presence
of this milk fat globule membrane so my
hypothesis is that it's really good for
brain health if you can tolerate Dairy
so a lot of people are lactose
intolerant but um if you think about it
when a baby is born especially a human
baby right a human baby continues its
development in the world it's actually
sometimes referred to as the fourth
trimester of development and
um breast milk is loaded with these
globule with these globules right that
must be there in at least in some way to
support the development of the brain
which is undergoing rapid organization
and growth
um during the time in which a baby is is
feeding right so
um so I've actually I've become a big
fan of full fat Dairy I think it's a
great a great food but I will offer the
caveat and this is another area with
regard to Dairy Where My Views have
evolved
um and and uh and we could also even
perhaps call this a food that I've that
I would recommend avoiding for some
um and I know I'm gonna get some hate
from the Paleo Community for this but uh
I think that butter is actually a food
that's worth
um relegating to uh like the Indulgence
category and the reason for that is that
when first of all butter is a man-made
product Dairy is made by Nature right
but butter is made by people and
um when you churn cream
you disrupt the milk fat globule
membrane so this is one of the reasons
why if you melt butter and you put it in
on in in some water it flows to the top
so that Global membrane has been
disrupted and I think that's one of the
reasons why you see in clinical studies
that when you feed people either cream
or butter they both start out as cream
right I mean cream is cream obviously
but butter starts out as cream butter
seems to have an adverse effect on blood
lipids whereas cream doesn't
so it's this it's the presence of this
like milk fat globule membrane that I
think makes uh
the fat in full fat Dairy very healthy
um but it's disruption I think is what
can lead to adverse a sort of adverse
lipid response in some to to butter when
you say an adverse lipid response you're
saying I eat the butter and it changes
the composition or the amount of the
lipids in my blood yes so like it'll
raise like LDL cholesterol and actually
the mechanism by which saturated fat
raises LDL
um is is quite interesting
it reduces availability of the LDL
receptor on on liver cells on
hepatocytes so the way that your body
works it's like a very elegant plumbing
system
your liver sends out these apob
containing particles lipoproteins right
like milk fat globular membrane but in
your blood LDL vldl
what have you and the idea is before
lung you want the liver to suck those
particles back up right the liver will
dismantle them use the cholesterol to
create bile acids for example
um and it relies on the availability of
these they're literally called the LDL
receptors on the surface of the liver
and saturated fat actually rate causes
an elevation of LDL cholesterol in the
blood in the blood because it's blocking
the uptake yes in the liver interesting
yeah and not all saturated fatty acids
do this I should add so I mean there's
you know Nuance I think
um
we've heard for many years and and
something that continues to be echoed by
uh particularly the vegan Community is
that saturated fat is bad but a fat is
not a fat just like a carb is not a
carbon a protein it's not a protein
um certain saturated fats do do this uh
more than others and so it seems to be
the case that butter
um
reduces availability of this of the LDL
receptor whereas other full fat dairy
products don't which is which is
fascinating
so why then has Dairy been on
everybody's Hit List in terms of
creating problems is it just that so
many people are lactose intolerant or is
there some other element to Dairy that
creates other problems you know that's a
really great question I think it has to
do with the I mean many people are
lactose intolerant I think there's a big
push now towards plant-based diets
there's a lot of money behind it right a
push towards the consumption of
fake meat products right which which I
like to call the equivalent of human pet
food you know it's like Ultra processed
junk but also and I I drink this stuff
sometimes but like almond milk and
macadamia nut milk all these all these
like plant-based milks there's a lot of
money going into them so there's this
big push away from dairy milk
um and also admittedly like in the
Wellness Community Dairy has been
demonized for some time people will say
that it's inflammatory
um meta-analyzes actually show that that
for most people Dairy is actually not
inflammatory
um so I'm going to give you a weird
anecdote
it is purely anecdotal sure but I was on
Saturday and Sunday I was eating the
toppings off of Domino's Pizza
and the only toppings I get are cheese
and I would do really light sauce so
even that was like very little so I
would do the cheese
olives pepperoni and I was eating it and
loved it and I just started noticing on
a Sunday that every Sunday night I would
feel like hot from the inside of my body
wow and it was just like a little
uncomfortable and I'd sleep a little
weird that night and I'm like
why am I always on Sunday and on like
Saturday I would allow myself to cheat
so if I wanted a candy bar to have a
candy bar if I wanted a bit of ice cream
I'd have ice cream but on Sunday I
wouldn't so Sunday it was just the
toppings from Domino's there was nothing
else in my diet that I would consider
you know sort of a cheat
and finally I was like is it possible
that I have a bad reaction to Dairy so
let me do the same thing but go to like
really light cheese and it stopped
happening interesting so I was like whoa
the only thing I affected was the amount
of cheese that I was in taking over
multiple meals because I would get a
pizza on Saturday and a pizza on Sunday
so I'm now cutting both of them in half
effectively in terms of the amount of
cheese and the the effect went away 100
now I know that's anecdotal but I was
like whoa maybe Dairy really is doing
some negative thing
so you couple that with all the
literature saying there's an issue I
know a lot of people have skin responses
like acne and stuff from dairy
right everybody's different so I
wouldn't you know I'm not uh saying that
everybody should should go out
especially if you know that you're
sensitive to it um I mean some people do
feel better cutting out casein which is
why aren't you saying like at a meta
level the people that and I mean maybe
this is the people that eat dairy or
pre-selected because they're not lactose
well they're also there's confounding
variables here right because like
Domino's Pizza who knows like if that's
even she don't you dare say something
bad about my dominoes no I mean I'm
being glib but like who knows what is it
is it is it just cheese or maybe it's
like some kind of like processed cheese
cut with grain and Seed oils that's
terrifying but very possible it's yeah
it's a proposition it is possible so I
would I would try to like a B test that
by going and getting some like some some
higher quality cheese that you know is
just cheese
um and also there could be some kind of
interaction with like the you know the
oils and the emulsifiers that are
sometimes used I mean that's the thing
is that restaurants are notorious Cost
Cutters I'm a big advocate of steering
away a as best as one can from grain and
Seed oils because in restaurants we know
that they're just they're heated and
they're reheated and they're they become
toxic you know essentially by the time
they're served on the plate
um
and so that's just a problem with like
with eating out in general you can't
always predict how a food is going to
make you feel
my wife knows that all too well and we
had the very uh uh unpleasantly
eye-opening experience of realizing that
even a lot of high-end restaurants when
they say that it's just olive oil it's
really blended oil and so you now have
to ask very specifically is this blended
oil or is this 100 extra virgin olive
oil the servers will never know they
always go back and act as a chef and
then they're always as surprised as
anybody else and say oh my God we you
know I didn't realize but this actually
is blended oil yeah we're like whoa yeah
so and that just absolutely ruins Lisa's
stomach so oh yeah it's bad I I mean
there's there's I mean this is
controversial too there there is within
the nutritional and medical Orthodoxy
there is still a major push towards
these Ultra refined refined bleached and
deodorized green and Seed oils which to
me are such low quality food I mean
let's just I mean just from a food
quality standpoint alone and give me
some of the
um we're talking canola oil here like
what's that not necessarily the name
brand yeah like what's the type of thing
I'm pulling off the shelf so canola oil
is probably and I'm not an advocate for
the consumption of canola oil but it's
probably the best of the Gaggle really
it's it's got a higher proportion of
monounsaturated fat which is chemically
quite stable I'm not advocating for it I
personally avoid it
um but why do you avoid it if it's well
because it's in that it's in that
category of of refined bleach and
deodorized Grain and seed oil so canola
oil corn oil soybean oil so it's
offensive but the least offensive right
okay that's how I would so I get then
what makes it offensive what makes it
the least offensive
well one of the major problems with
these grain and Seed oils is that they
have a very high proportion of what's
called polyunsaturated fatty acids pufas
for short and poofas are not in any way
dangerous right they're found in all fat
containing foods contain some proportion
of pufas right so grass-fed beef has
pufas in it wild fatty fish has poofas
in it avocados have some components some
proportion of pufas in it the issue is
that in Whole Foods those pufas which
are very delicate and damage prone
they're prone to a form of chemical
disfigurement called oxidation
they're protected in Whole Foods by the
antioxidants that nature has has has
packaged them with right nature thought
ahead nature was like these fats are
very delicate they're very damage prone
let's bundle foods that contain these
polyunsaturated fats in any significant
quantity with vitamin E which is one of
the most important fat soluble
antioxidants in nature right
the issue with grain and Seed oils is
that
a these fats are rich in polyunsaturated
fats which are very delicate damage
prone and whether it's via heat or or
mechanical or chemical extraction
they're subject to forces that
accelerate this oxidative process right
light heat and oxygen all catalyze and
accelerate this oxidative process and
they're stripped of the antioxidants
that in Whole Foods would protect them
so the reason why I would say that
canola oil is you know maybe the best of
of the worst is that it's got a lower
proportion of these polyunsaturated fat
of these polyunsaturated fats on the
other hand it's got a higher proportion
of omega-3 fats which are actually more
delicate and damage prone than omega-6
fats so I'm not again advocating for
their consumption but
um but you know it's got a high
proportion of monounsaturated fat which
monounsaturated means it only contains
one double bond which means that under
normal circumstances it's actually quite
chemically stable that monounsaturated
fat is the primary fatty acid found in
extra virgin olive oil it's also found
in abundance and grass-fed beef and wild
salmon and the like but all of these
grain and Seed oils whether we're
talking about canola oil soybean oil
grapeseed oil is probably the worst
because it's about I believe 80 to 90
polyunsaturated fat
in during the production chain they all
undergo a process a step called
deodorization which is the food
industry's equivalent of the witness
protection program it basically it takes
these oils which would otherwise contain
really bitter flavors noxious noxious uh
Aromas that that consumers wouldn't want
right and it it it absolves them of any
character
that's the deodorization step now the
issue is that that step creates a small
but significant amount of trans fats
which we know there's no safe level of
trans fat consumption I mean the FDA
banned their most common uh
occurrence The partially hydrogenated
fats what is up my friend Tom bilyu here
and I have a big question to ask you how
would you rate your level of personal
discipline on a scale of one to ten if
your answer is anything less than a ten
I've got something cool for you and let
me tell you right now discipline by its
very nature means compelling yourself to
do difficult things that are stressful
boring which is what kills most people
or possibly scary or even painful now
here is the thing achieving huge goals
and stretching to reach a potential
requires you to do those challenging
stressful things and to stick with them
even when it gets boring and it will get
boring building your levels of personal
discipline is not easy but let me tell
you it pays off in fact I will tell you
you're never going to achieve anything
meaningful unless you develop discipline
right I've just released a class from
Impact Theory university called how to
build Ironclad discipline that teaches
you the process of building yourself up
in this area so that you can push
yourself to do the hard things that
greatness is going to require of you
right click the link on this screen
register for this class right now and
let's get to work I will see you inside
this Workshop from Impact Theory
University until then my friends be
legendary peace out
why is that so my understanding is
probably a super lay person's
understanding of trans fats is that
basically the the bonds in it become
rigid so it's normally the fat molecule
is quite squishy and it becomes rigid
and then when those when you uptake that
into your body and you use those fat
cells to make your own cell membranes
you're using these rigid brittle
um
fat cells and so it makes the actual
membrane on your own cells brittle and
rigid is that more actually what's
happening yeah I mean that's what
happens when it once those those fats
have
become have been integrated into the
phospholipid bilayer which is what it's
called which is how those fats sort of
Orient themselves within the
um the cell membrane
but it comes down to the double bonds
and the fact that they are
electrochemically unstable
um
and
monounsaturated fats the mono implies
that they have one double bond the
polyunsaturated fats the poly in
polyunsaturated fats imply that they
have multiple double bonds and so
on the spectrum of monounsaturated fats
and polyunsaturated fats the
monounsaturated fats are actually more
saturated because they have fewer double
bonds when you have a double bond
actually so double bonds generally they
what they do they make a a cell they
help promote the characteristic of
membrane fluidity which is actually the
opposite so it they because these double
bonds they cause a kink in the fatty
acid chain
it doesn't allow the fatty acid
um the fatty acids to to aggregate as
tightly as they would with saturated
fats saturated fats are straight and so
that allows them to pack together more
tightly on that's why saturated fats are
solid at room temperature
polyunsaturated fats actually generally
promote this characteristic of membrane
fluidity and we need polyunsaturated fat
so this is not to demonize them in any
way we need both the omega-6s and the
Omega-3s and actually the
polyunsaturated fatty acid that's most
abundant in Grain and Seed oils linoleic
acid we do have some physiological
requirement for that fat right
the issue is we over consume it today
and we consume them in the form of these
grain and Seed oils which again are
prone to oxidation and
lipid peroxidation in particular is a
major contributor to oxidative stress in
the brain so we don't even have the
long-term data that makes me feel
comfortable
consuming these kinds of fats at the
level that your average American is
consuming them we know that they lower
LDL relative to saturated fat and I
think that's one of the if not the
reason that the medical and nutritional
Orthodoxy loves them
um but yeah they're prone they're prone
to oxidation and we know that the brain
is a crucible for oxidative stress and
not just do they oxidize but they
generate these really toxic secondary
products of oxidation like aldehydes
certain aldehydes which we know are no
bueno so I take a sort of precautionary
principle
approach you know with these with these
fats and I think that I think that
they're they're definitely worth
avoiding also 20 of the oxygen that
you're that you're using you're 20 of
whole body oxygen consumption is being
used by the brain and the Brain accounts
for two percent of the body's Mass so 20
of the oxygen in in a container that
that speaks for two percent of the mass
of your body right it's a container
that's ultimately the size of a
grapefruit right so you've got all this
oxygen
being used to create energy in this tiny
space and your brain is comprised
primarily of these kinds of fats
polyunsaturated fats that's why we need
to get them from diet right we need to
get them but we should be getting them
from Whole Foods from Wild fatty fish
from nuts and seeds from
um avocados you know
but that's why the brain is essentially
a crucible for oxidative stress and
oxidative stress is at the foundation of
conditions like Alzheimer's disease of
Parkinson's disease it can exacerbate
pre-existing disease States right so
it's a big problem and I'm I'm not going
to say that you know we have all the
data to say that these seed oils are The
Smoking Gun with with conditions like
Alzheimer's Disease by the way these are
multifactorial conditions so you know
I'm not I don't want to scare people
into thinking that these oils are the
cause of the of those conditions and we
we honestly don't have that data to say
even that they're that they are with
with absolute certainty that they are
causally related that's the hypothesis
but I don't think that we will ever have
that kind of data that's sort of my plea
to people right and the medical order is
what is to is to approach these oils
with great caution because they didn't
exist in the human food supply prior to
100 years ago and mechanistically we see
that they're so prone to this this sort
of chemical chemical degradation and
disfigurement and that's relevant to the
brain and also I'll add as another
important point that the context in
which these oils are being consumed is
generally a diet that's low in
antioxidants low in in fat soluble
antioxidants like vitamin E which we
know is crucially important vitamin E is
one of the most important to get vitamin
E
so almonds are a fantastic Source
avocados are a fantastic Source
grass-fed grass-finished beef is a great
source of vitamin E you've got three
times the vitamin E and grass-finished
beef as you haven't grain finished beef
generally in nature wherever you find
polyunsaturated fats you find in the
appropriate proportion vitamin E that's
like Nature's Way to protect these
polyunsaturated fats so we're eating
more polyunsaturated fats than ever
before in human history and we're
consuming less vitamin E
I think 90 percent of adults don't
consume adequate don't consume an
adequate amount of vitamin E which is
actually vitamin E represents about I
believe eight isoforms of vitamin E we
under consume I mean all of them because
we're not eating we're eating so few
Whole Foods these days
and we're over consuming these these
grain and Seed oils the more
polyunsaturated fats you consume the
higher your requirement for vitamin E
and most people aren't consuming
adequate vitamin E so I think it's a I
think it's a huge problem and
anecdotally totally anecdotal you know
that I got started because my mom was
very sick she had a form of dementia
for many years she had Lewy Body
dementia yeah that's what Robin Williams
said right yeah yeah crazy horrible
disease horrible disease and and my mom
passed away three years ago and this is
just an anecdote take it with a grain of
salt but
um my mom ate a diet that any dietitian
of the 80s and 90s would have said she's
on the right path well done I grew up
with these grain and Seed oils in my
kitchen right
big plastic see-through jug of corn oil
by the stove margarine in my fridge
yeah I grew up eating these kinds of
fats now I'm not going to say that they
are what caused my mom's condition but I
do you know I it's it's my hypothesis
hypothesis that along with the over
consumption of grain and seeds with with
refined grain products rather these oils
um yeah I don't think that they're doing
our health any favors
yeah I want to go back to this idea of
victim blaming you're such a kind person
and I love how you're trying to position
this to make sure that the most people
can hear you assumingly possible but
what I don't want to get lost in there
is that like I'll speak for myself I
have unintentionally made a lot of poor
choices with my diet because I didn't
know better and then I've intentionally
made poor choices with my diet because
it was a lot of fun and it's really
important to me to now be at a place
where I'm at least more or less to the
best of everybody's belief at this point
I know what to do to like if I'm feeling
inflamed and my joints are hurting I
feel in control I know what to do to
bring that pain down so I just want to
make sure that it doesn't get lost in
the kindness that there really are
there's cause and effect to what you eat
and while it's not all known it will for
sure change over time you definitely
shouldn't feel bad about even eating
things that you know are bad for you
like don't don't feel bad about it right
like when I eat bad foods I'm not
feeling guilty I'm like I this is a
trade-off right I may be shortening My
Life by some amount but this is really
fun so I'm going to do it and certainly
if I didn't know any better I mean Jesus
what can you do numbness really know
like you know what are we doing like
when I discovered that blankets
had like you know crazy chemicals in
them I went out and bought an
all-natural blanket that [__] is
scratchy so now I still use my old
filled with terrible chemicals blanket
because it's soft as hell so you know my
thing is look we're I don't want anybody
to feel ashamed or anything like that
but I want people to understand that you
can get control of this that if your
diet is leading you somewhere that you
don't want to go that you really can
learn about it and make choices that
will yield a very different outcome so
for me I look at my family they're all
morbidly obese and I coming from the
same stock was headed in the same
direction
learned about nutrition and was able to
take myself in a completely different
direction so I really want people to
understand you can eat whatever you want
and I'm not judging you I think it's
amazing make your choices
um but hey if you're ever getting a
result that you don't want you can make
a new choice and get a new result yeah
so beautifully said and to me I think
what it what it really comes down to is
giving people to the tools to make uh to
to to make an informed choice at the end
of the day because
a lot of people when they show up to
their doctor's office with these
conditions that take years to develop
years if not decades right they're like
why me and so as long as I think I I
know that I'm putting good information
out to to help people make an informed
Choice then then by all means indulge
when when you choose to because
no single meal single Indulgence is
going to sway your health in any
direction positive or negative no you
know it's not eating for optimal brain
health isn't about eating a handful of
berries every once in a while it's about
your dietary pattern as a whole it's
about how you're eating every single day
um and with regard to I mean other
things that I think people really
ought to stop doing that will uh make a
measurable have a measurable positive
impact on their health can we talk about
mouthwash for a little bit yeah yeah
you're trying to like really [__] me up
with this mouthwash thing yeah this is a
this is something that um the more I
learn about it the more uh the more
convinced I am that this is something we
need to be talking about because nobody
is right
um there's a lot of money that goes into
the the sale of mouthwash in fact I was
at a drugstore
um not too long ago and I saw this big
ad imploring people with type 2 diabetes
which is very common in this country
right that periodontal disease is a big
problem for for people with type 2
diabet diabetes so they should buy our
mouthwash right it's a big mouthwash
brand but mouthwash
is a major problem and I'll tell you why
people who frequently use mouthwash what
you're doing is you're nuking bacteria
in your mouth that are required to
create and recycle nitric oxide and we
create nitric oxide in different ways
one of the reasons why nose breathing is
so important because we create nitric
oxide
via the nitric oxide synthase enzyme in
the epithelial epithelial cells of our
paranasal sinus
but oral bacteria are play a crucial
role in this nitric oxide pathway
um and the the reason why is they help
to reduce nitrate from food
to nitrite so reducing it means that
they're removing an oxygen molecule and
it's nitrate that enters that basically
creates nitric oxide in our blood
vessels and they also recycle the nitric
oxide
um that we produce endogenously when
we're exercising
so so far these are a lot of words that
like I sort of understand but like
what's the real impact of my twice a day
Listerine habit so studies show and we
need more research but what they've
shown in obese patients is that people
who use antiseptic mouthwash that's the
key word so mouthwash that is germ
destroying bacteria antibacterial
mouthwash twice a day or more have a 50
increased risk of developing type 2
diabetes
right so weird and doubling of risk for
hypertension so high blood pressure but
it makes sense when you realize that
you're killing the bacteria that help to
increase levels of nitric oxide but what
is nitric oxide doing in the body that
would impact type 2 diabetes because
it's not just involved in blood pressure
it's a it's a cellular signaling
molecule that's involved in insulin
sensitivity
which is weird important insulin
resistance is the Cornerstone of type 2
diabetes so it's basically affecting our
body's ability to process sugar so if I
were wearing a continuous glucose
monitor and I'm using my Listerine and
then I stop would I notice a difference
in my reading
if you're wearing a continuous glucose
monitor and you stop you could
potentially yeah you could potentially
see
um if if this Bears out right because
these are correlational studies sure but
um if this is borne out
um you would potentially see an
improvement in your body's ability to
partition sugar if you cut out but
here's the thing is that one even just
one use can increase your blood pressure
um and also they've shown and this was a
randomized control trial they've shown
that
using antiseptic mouthwash after a
workout so we know that exercise is as
powerful as medicine for helping to
normalize our blood pressure yep they
found that using mouthwash after
exercise negates
to a large degree the anti-hypertensive
effects of exercise so it basically
negates some of one of the most
important benefits of exercise using
mouthwash after a workout so the take
home is don't use antiseptic mouthwash
after a workout now the type of
mouthwash that they use in that study is
called chlorhexidine which is a I
believe it's a prescription only
antiseptic mouthwash but I would not
regularly use an alcohol based mouthwash
for the for that reason because you're
basically nuking the bacteria you
wouldn't take an antibiotic every day we
know that antibacter we we've overused
antibacterial hand soap so why
who in their right mind would would
think that it makes sense to sterilize
the oral cavity every single day you're
supposed to have bacteria in your mouth
yeah but like it my mouth literally
tastes better if I do
Listerine because there are days where
I'll just brush my teeth and I forget or
I'm traveling and so I only have
toothpaste I don't have the Listerine
yeah and I'm like I notice
well the increased risk was was seen for
people who use it twice or more per day
so I mean you could hypothetically use
it for use it use it once a day if you
wanted
um but I I personally wouldn't I would
tongue scrape which is a great way to
freshen up the mouth like with your
toothbrush just yeah you could use it
you could do that you'd brush your
tongue flossing you well there there are
actual like these medical tongue
scraping really uh things that you can
buy yeah because a lot of the like the
the bad breath bacteria it Aggregates on
the tongue but yeah I mean I think like
flossing regularly
I I mean it blows my mind that there are
people that don't we're getting way off
topic but like it blows my mind that
there are people that don't floss like
all I need to do is floss once and see
what I'm pulling out of my teeth and
that to me is like I floss now twice a
day
um I also you know brush I
um think that you know fluoride has has
antiseptic uh properties so I personally
use a fluoride free
um toothpaste I use toothpaste with
hydroxyapatite which
um is actually fairly common in Japan
there are studies that suggest that it's
as good at re helping to re mineralize
teeth as fluoride so I use a an
hydroxyapatene is a natural component of
bone and teeth so there's no sort of
antiseptic quality of of uh
nanohydroxyapatite
um so I floss a brush and then I eat an
evolutionary evolutionarily appropriate
diet I cut out the refined grain
products which we know are easily
retained by Oral bacteria and are highly
karyogenic I actually talk about this
ingenious yeah they promote the
formation of caries which is the the
medical way of saying cavities got it
um
yeah they promote the growth of
streptococcus streptococcus mutans which
is the primary cavity-causing bacteria
in the mouth
um
but the problem with rinsing with uh
antiseptic mouthwash is you're nuking
the bad bacteria but you're also nuking
the good bacteria the bacteria that help
to break down nitrate in our foods like
beets and arugula right beets in arugula
we know are rich in nitrates but if
you're regularly rinsing your mouth with
antiseptic mouthwash you're you're
basically disallowing the ability of
your food to have a neuro a cardio
protective effect right like you could
be eating all the beets and arugula you
want but if you're destroying the
bacteria in your mouth that are required
to reduce the nitrate that those foods
contain to nitrite you're you're
basically like a you're you're wasting
your money and you're wasting your
effort because we rely on oral bacteria
to
um to derive maximum benefit from those
Foods right
all right super interesting now let's
get into what are the things that we
should be adding I like your take on
meat
um I have now I've really tried to go
plant forward so
um we have there's a guy here on the
team who has a really big percentage gap
between his chronological agents
biological age so
um I was like what do you do and he had
been vegan for years so I was like all
right let's do this and he gave me this
concoction to make in the morning it's
largely fruit though and I was like
there's no way you're gonna die like
when I first saw him eating it I was
like bro like that there's no way that's
good for you and his body composition of
course he's very very skinny has a hard
time putting on weight so I was like is
he like skinny fat and you know so
anyway let me try this wearing my
continuous glucose monitor I eat this
thing now if you eat it slowly you go up
to about 120 or I go up to about 120 and
you say that's where he goes as well 120
and he stays if I eat it fast I'll go
all the way up to 150 uh which for me
that's like sort of red light High
um yeah so that is questionable but but
I've my body composition did not go up
so I don't know if it's just depressing
my calories and the overall caloric
intake on the Smoothie isn't very high I
don't know but
um
but I don't feel great and so I notice
on days where I have it I'm just meh I
don't know I it's not traumatic it's not
bad it's not brain fog it's nothing if
you were going to give like a sense of
what's the qualia of your day I would
just say I'm off a little bit I wouldn't
be able to pinpoint it it's not brain
fog it's not lack of energy I don't know
just don't feel normal now if I eat meat
I feel like a million bucks I'm ready to
rock so have you reverted your position
then like have you gone back to like a
more yeah oh if I if I immediately I do
both but there might be three or four
days where I'll go and I won't have the
Smoothie so on those days I would say I
feel normal because I always feel good
because my diet's clean just year round
um
and when I have the smoothie I feel a
little bit off but it's not catastrophic
by any means
um
and for body composition reasons
sometimes I'll do the shake just because
it does seem to help me stay tight even
though it's fruit which I still can't
wrap my head around how that's true uh
but it is certainly makes me feel Fuller
from a muscular standpoint
um
but yeah so anyway I keep trying to go
plant forward I'm never loving the way
that I feel
there's a lot of Dogma around like
either moral reasons for needing to go
plant forward but I like the way that
you had a take on meat in the book I'd
love for you to go into that why meat
let's get into the weeds a little bit on
amino acids yeah yeah
there's this you know I mean we talked
about this push towards plant-based
eating and I think that it's it's great
to include plants right I mean it's we
see that fruit and vegetable consumption
is associated with reduced inflammation
with with longevity all these all these
really positive things right
observationally when we look at
People's Health and their meat
consumption habits people who consume
more meat just because meat has been
demonized for so many decades at this
point
people who consume more meat
and especially processed meat they tend
to have worse Health outcomes but that's
because people who eat more meat tend to
be more sedentary they tend to smoke
more people who are vegan tend to be
more health conscious right they tend to
um or or people that have plant heavy
diets right people who are
here's a good example of of healthy user
bias right like if you were to look
observationally at the population level
at all the people in the in the U.S who
eat quinoa and then you were to sort of
um rank them in terms of how much quinoa
they're eating right
I guarantee you you would see the people
who eat quinoa often have great health
outcomes right
is it because of the quinoa or is it in
spite of the quinoa right that's where
we have to recognize when you start
eating quinoa you're shopping at air one
there you go yeah the fact that you know
how to pronounce quinoa is a good sign
right that's a good sign which most
people wouldn't know how to pronounce
quinoa right especially if they're not
Health Food Shoppers or if they're or or
health conscious for that matter and so
that's the that's the limitation with I
think epidemiology when it comes to
teasing out the value or the health
effect that meat can have right but when
you look at what meat is I mean it's a
pristine source of protein it's the
highest quality highest biological
biological value source of protein to be
found in nature right we can look at the
digestible indispensable amino acid
score which is you know the latest and
greatest way of measuring protein
digestibility we see that meat is
consistently at the top I mean soy comes
close uh but you know eggs whey protein
aggressive beef chicken always at the
top
um
the proportion of essential amino acids
is phenomenal right like you've got a
very high proportion of the nine
essential amino acids very uh
concentrated in branched chain amino
acids which we know are crucially
important for
halting muscle protein breakdown and
stimulating muscle protein synthesis we
know that high protein foods meat in
particular also tend to contain a lot of
really important micronutrients that
that are typically under consumed today
in their most bioavailable form I'll add
so you know when you're getting
micronutrients whether it's B12 or iron
or zinc from an animal sourced food
those micronutrients are Plug and Play
to your body right they don't have to
undergo complex biochemical
transformation that vary in in the in
their efficacy
from person to person right like
plant-based
Omega-3s for example
alpha linolenic acid
very constrained in terms of our ability
to generate the biologically relevant
omega-3 fats icosapenta enoic acid and
ducosa hexaneic acid DHA fat from the
plant-based form right women are about
10 times better at it than men women I
think about 10 percent of the
plant-based Omega-3s that they that they
ingest will get converted to DHA fat
it's thought that women have a higher
ability to do this because of
childbearing right but men
um less than one percent of the
plant-based Omega-3s that we ingest
actually get get converted to DHA fat so
that's a miserable I mean statistic
right there whereas the DHA fat that you
ingest from wild salmon or from omega-3
enriched eggs plug and play for the
human body and this is true for all the
I mean many many of the micronutrients
that you see in in animal products and
they're without anti-nutrients that can
potentially hinder their absorption so
so I'm a big advocate of the consumption
of meat I think it's I think it's really
important and also
I'll add that
there's this big issue of food access
and food distribution in this country
right you can go into
any almost any supermarket in this
country and buy a pack of ground beef
right and to me that is a going to be a
much healthier dinner than boxed mac and
cheese right you can go into any gas
station almost and find canned tuna
right which is going to be a pristine
source of protein great source of
minerals like selenium and such and so I
think we we have to really
um be careful not to demonize these
kinds of these kinds of foods now I'm
not saying everybody should go out and
become carnivores right that's not my
Approach but I think we do need to get
back to some sort of semblance of common
sense when it comes to the kinds of
foods that we know that humans have been
eating since we've been human
yeah it's interesting watching some of
the nature shows and seeing like
um there are like take the Pelican a
pelican will try to eat a cat
it's not like you know we have this
image of like oh uh monkeys only eat you
know shoots and leaves no no if they can
get a hold of something they will eat it
Nature's wild yeah Nature's wild
um so yeah I think it's pretty clear
from an evolutionary standpoint that
humans are omnivores and I like the idea
of eat what you need to build and so if
you need to build muscle and you know
brain tissue and all that well then
you're gonna eat the things that are
actually that versus eating a plant
which has those you know amino acids for
the most part but not quite in the most
available form
um it's very interesting yeah also I
mean low-fat vegetarian diets are
associated with with reduced
testosterone it's not like plants don't
have a potential downside right I mean
we have to talk about the fact that
plants today grown especially in the
industrial plant agriculture system
harbor heavy metals
um they are vehicles for herbicides and
pesticides which you know I mean
I'm not saying that organic is better
than conventional I think there's debate
on a healthy debate on that
um
but uh but yeah I mean I think I think
it's about ultimately
um a balance a balance of both but um
but protein I think is important it's
highly satiating it assuages our hunger
I think in a really powerful way right
which fat and carbs can't do
um
again the the fact that high protein
foods contain are a repository of other
micronutrients which we know are
beneficial
um I think it's I think it's really
important and there's this fear now I
think around protein and Longevity and
we know that people who are people over
65 who eat higher levels of protein have
increased longevity reduced risk of
cancer
um
and uh and so yeah I take a I take a
pretty Firm Stance on that eggs for
example eczara another food that you can
go anywhere in this country right food
deserts you'll be able to find eggs
right they're not going to be the most
pristine pasteurized eggs that you and I
might find in our local Whole Foods for
example but there's still a health food
there's still a cognitive multivitamin
right egg yolks are incredible so
um so yeah I'm really against the sort
of fear-mongering around around is there
such a thing as too many eggs ate a lot
of eggs yeah a lot there's a eggs
dietary cholesterol we now know has very
little long-term effect on on serum
cholesterol there might be an acute
effect
um because when you eat more cholesterol
when you when you through your diet
ingest more cholesterol your liver is
going to create less of it when you
ingest less your liver is going to
create more so the body wants
homeostasis right the issue is that
there's a bit of a lag time so if you uh
from one day to the next start eating
more cholesterol
um dietary cholesterol if you're on a
low cholesterol diet then you start
eating more cholesterol you may perhaps
see an increase in your blood lipids but
that will normalize over time
um the the key sort of needle mover on
cholesterol
tends to be saturated certain saturated
fatty acids
um and we talked sort of about this but
um but I you know with foods like butter
coconut oil they'll raise your your LDL
cholesterol and there's really no
nutritional value to I think like eating
an excess of of isolated fats right
you're gonna when you when you adopt a
diet that contains animal products like
red meat you're gonna you're gonna have
a cholesterol level that's lower than I
mean that's I'm sorry higher than that
of a of a vegan perhaps but I think that
there's benefit to
um there's there are other other
benefits to be had from consuming these
Foods right the benefits outweigh the
risks the fact that meat can help you
stay robust and healthy it can help
optimize your testosterone your your
hormones your testosterone
um the fact that it provides all of
these other micronutrients that help
your body carry out all of its many sort
of faculties
um I think is is non-trivial it's a
non-trivial benefit
yeah man speaking of non-trivial
benefits where can people follow you
thank you brother um so I'm very active
on Instagram at maxlugavier I host my
own podcast called the Genius life yeah
you've been on it
um love to get you back it's called the
Genius life and my new book genius
kitchen is out now wherever you buy
wherever you get your books so awesome
all right guys
your health is everything please take it
seriously get it right this guy does it
right you will definitely want to pick
up the book uh he's got multiple books
all of which will lead you to a
lifestyle that you will never regret
getting into and speaking of things you
will never regret if you haven't already
be sure to subscribe and until next time
my friends be legendary take care peace
study that showed if you actually
increase your level of Omega-3s by an
extra serving a week or two like from
wherever you are with your starting
point you can increase your longevity
your Survival by 4.7 years